# Asset Fingerprint
**Asset Fingerprint is a Ruby on Rails plugin (supports Rails versions 2.2.x & 2.3.x, for Rails 3+ see [Rails Version Support](#rails-version-support)) to fingerprint asset files using md5 checksum (or
timestamp or anything else you like) in file names to improve cacheability
compared to the default Rails asset caching strategy.**

So, instead of asset paths like `/images/logo.png?1234567890` you can have
fingerprinted asset paths like 
`/images/logo-fp-839b180ff39a24f8d6e0ee70e4c40fed.png` with no query string.

The server knows how to handle the fingerprinted asset paths using rewrite rules
or symlinks, as explained in [file_name path rewriting](#file_name-path-rewriting).

At time of writing, the default configuration used by the plugin is based on guidelines given at
[Google Page Speed](http://code.google.com/speed/page-speed/docs/caching.html).

The plugin alters `AssetTagHelper` so the relevant helper methods (`image_path`,
`image_tag`, `stylesheet_link_tag`, etc.) generate the correct fingerprinted URLs.

Asset Fingerprint can also be customized in any other way, for example if you
wanted to use the default Rails asset caching strategy of putting file timestamps
in the query string, then you can, however&hellip;

File timestamps are not recommended as fingerprints as these are
often inconsistent between deployments when a file has not changed. This means
your app may not take full advantage of asset caching. Reasons for timestamp
inconsistency include:
  
* Multiple app servers checking out files at different times
* Git does not preserve file timestamps (it really doesn't)
* Subversion not configured to preserve file timestamps
* Generated asset files (e.g. compressed css and js bundles)
  
In all of these cases the md5 checksum does not change unless the file contents
have changed, so using an asset file's md5 checksum as its fingerprint
is often a better option than a file timestamp.

Putting fingerprints in the query string is also not recommended as some
caching proxies are allegedly incorrectly configured to ignore query string
parameters. File name fingerprinting gets around this problem.

<a id="rails-version-support"></a>
## Rails Version Support
  * Tested with Rails 2.2. & 2.3.x though there is a chance it will work with earlier versions.
  * For Rails 3.1, use Rails' own asset fingerprinting provided by the asset pipeline
  * For Rails 3.0, take a look at <https://github.com/polleverywhere/asset_fingerprinter>

## Getting started
1. Install the plugin at `vendor/plugins/asset_fingerprint` in your app.
2. Then you *must* create a `config/initializers/asset_fingerprint.rb` file and put
the following require statement in it: `require 'asset_fingerprint/asset_tag_helper'`
3. By default, the plugin will give your app asset paths with maximum
cacheability, i.e. using md5 fingerprints as part of the asset file name, 
*however* if you do *not* want this, then you can change it. For example if you
want to use timestamp fingerprints instead of md5 fingerprints, or you want to 
put the fingerprint in the query string instead of the file name, then you can
add one or both these lines to the initializer script we just created:

    `AssetFingerprint.fingerprinter = :timestamp # default is :md5`

    `AssetFingerprint.path_rewriter = :query_string # default is :file_name`


## Write your own fingerprinters and path_rewriters
If you need to, it is simple to write your own fingerprinters and path_rewriters
and configure them in the initializer script. View the source to see how this
can be done.

<a id="file_name-path-rewriting"></a>
## file_name path rewriting
The `:file_name` path rewriter is used by default and changes the file name of
the asset paths generated by rails helpers such as `image_tag`, `image_path`,
`stylesheet_link_tag`, etc.

Your app will need to know which asset file to serve for a given rewritten
file path as the rewritten paths do not correspond to a real file.

Luckily getting your app to do this is simple in most cases, two options
are presented below, a [Server Rewrite](#server-rewrite) and a [Generate Symlinks](#generate-symlinks) option.

You can use both methods for different environments within the same app. For example,
I've previously used the server rewrite option in development to save muddying my dev environment with
lots of symlinks, and in the same app used the symlink option in production so I could
use Passenger's high performance option (which required that Apache Rewrite is
not used).

<a id="server-rewrite"></a>
### Server Rewrite
If you decide to use the Server Rewrite method, add this line to the initializer
script:

`AssetFingerprint.asset_files_served_by = :server_rewrite`

Then, assuming you are using Apache, add *one* of these rewrite rules to 
get it to serve the correct asset file for a fingerprinted path:


    # For md5 fingerprints
    RewriteRule ^(.+)-fp-[0-9a-z]{32}(.*)$ $1$2 [QSA,PT,L]
&nbsp;

    # For timestamp fingerprints
    # (you should check that the timestamps returned by your production operating
    # system are 10 digits long. If they are not, change the {10} in the regex
    # below to the correct length.)
    RewriteRule ^(.+)-fp-[0-9]{10}(.*)$ $1$2 [QSA,PT,L]

If you're not using Apache, then adapt the rules above for your server.

**P.S.** User-submitted rewrite rule for nginx `rewrite "^(.+)-fp-[0-9a-z]{32}(.*)" $1$2 last;`

<a id="generate-symlinks"></a>
### Generate Symlinks
This option creates a symlink for each asset file, where the symlink is the
rewritten filename, e.g. the asset file `images/logo.png` would get a symlink
like `images/logo-fp-1234567890.png` pointing to it.

The symlink option is recommended if you think symlinks will give you better
performance than rewrite rules.

By default, the plugin generates symlinks on-the-fly, however you can
generate all the symlinks ahead of time at deployment using rake:

    rake asset_fingerprint:symlinks:generate
If you use this rake task you'll want to stop symlinks from being generated
on-the-fly. Add this setting to your initializer script:

    AssetFingerprint.symlink_on_the_fly = false

Call the rake task like so (you may want to do this with capistrano):

    rake asset_fingerprint:symlinks:generate RAILS_ENV=the_env

If your app has asset files or directories in `public/` that are not any of
these defaults: `['favicon.ico', 'images', 'javascripts', 'stylesheets']`
then add this setting to the initializer script and customize as needed:

    AssetFingerprint.asset_paths = ['my-custom-image.png', 'my-custom-dir', 'favicon.ico', 'images', 'javascripts', 'stylesheets']

The `AssetFingerprint.asset_paths` setting is used by the rake task to decide
which files to symlink. If you specify directories, it will search them 
recursively for asset files symlinking as it goes. You only need to specify
exact file names if they are immediate children of `public/`, like `public/favicon.ico`.

Using the rake task is recommended to save the overhead of generating the symlinks
on the fly during user requests in a production environment.

## Tips

* To remove the generated symlinks call `rake asset_fingerprint:symlinks:purge`
* By default the plugin will cause symlinks to be generated in your development environment
  (take care not to commit the symlinks to your repository) until you set
  `AssetFingerprint.symlink_on_the_fly` to false.

## Contributors
* Eliot Sykes <http://github.com/eliotsykes>
* Evan Worley <http://github.com/evanworley>
* Joe Van Dyk <http://github.com/joevandyk>

*Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Eliot Sykes, released under the MIT license*
